- And so the reason why
we're kind of differentiating
these two spots on the promoters
because different things
happen at the TATA box
versus the initiation site.
The TATA box is where some
of the helpers of the RNA
polymerase bind to.
And the name of those
helper proteins, they're
called transcription factors.
So that's where, again,
the transcription factors
bind to that TATA box
of the promoter region.
And it turns out that there
are several different types
of transcription factors, and
they all bind to that TATA
box of the promoter.
Again, the purpose of
these transcription factors
is that they help the star
of this show do their thing.
And when we're talking
about transcription,
remember again that the star
of this show, the enzyme that
makes it all happen,
is RNA polymerase.
And where it binds to,
it binds to the promoter,
but specifically it
binds to this initiation
site of the promoter.
It turns out that in order for
the RNA polymerase to bind,
it has to be associated with
a protein called the sigma
factor.
So it turns out that
RNA polymerase will only
be able to find this initiation
site if there is this sigma
factor that's bound to it.
If the sigma factor was not
bound to the on RNA polymerase,
the RNA polymerase
would never make its way
towards the initiation site.
So again, here is
another protein
that's helping the RNA
polymerase do its job.
It turns out that RNA
polymerase needs a lot of help
if you're talking about
if eukaryotic cell.
in order to transcribe a gene.
So there are usually several
transcription factors
that glom on and make sure
that the RNA polymerase stays
attached to that
initiation site.
There's other helpers too--
so there's another portion
of the promoter that's called.
So that's another
transcription factor.
A whole bunch of them are
needed to help RNA polymerase.
But again, it turns
out that there's
a lot of help that's needed.
So there is another portion
of the promoter that's
called the regulatory site.
And it's here that another
helper protein binds to.
So there's something
that's called
a regulatory protein that
binds to the regulatory site.
And again, the job of
this regulatory protein,
like all these
other proteins, is
that it plays a
role in making sure
that they are in a
RNA polymerase stays
bound to the initiation site.
It turns out that that's not it.
The RNA polymerase and
eukaryotes, at least,
need even more help.
So if you consider
this region here--
so there is a region in
front of their promoter,
a little bit upstream
of the promoter,
called an enhancer region
and a silencer region.
And it turns out that
there are proteins
that also bind here that help
RNA polymerase do its job.
And so that protein
that binds here that
helps RNA polymerase that's
called an activator protein,
that's what A stands for.
And so again, when
you're talking
about eukaryotic cells at
least, transcription again,
requires RNA polymerase
but it'll only
do its job if there is all
of these proteins also bound.
And basically all
these proteins help
the RNA polymerase do its thing,
which is to go down that gene
and transcribe it.
And so remember that after it
hits the terminator region,
that's when it knows
that it's found
the end of the gene,
that's when it comes off.
And again, what
the RNA polymerase
does is that it as it
goes down that gene,
it uses it in order to make.
It reads it in order to make
a messenger RNA molecule.
And the messenger
RNA molecule, again,
goes to the ribosome to
tell the cell how to make
a particular type of protein.
So the take home point here
is that in eukaryotic cells,
there are a lot of
proteins that are required
in order to help RNA polymerase
bind to the promoter region.
So we mentioned that there
is these things called
transcription factors.
There are these things
called regulatory proteins,
and there is these things
called activator proteins.
Again, they all help the RNA
polymerase transcribe a gene.
You might be wondering in
this picture here-- so,
check out this activator
protein all the way over here.
You might be wondering
how does a protein that
binds all the way
over here, how's
that going to help RNA
polymerase attach way up here?
And it looks like there
is a big disconnect
between the activator protein
and the RNA polymerase that
binds to the promoter.
How does this help
something that
binds all the way over here?
Well, it turns out that
DNA, it's kind of flexible,
so it can bend.
And because of that
bending, that's
what actually allows the
activator protein to interact
with the RNA polymerase
and make sure that the RNA
polymerase stays there.
Here's what we're talking about.
So again, here is
the promoter region,
here is the RNA polymerase.
We said that there's
all kinds of things
that help it stay attached,
including something called
an activator protein,
which is way over here
on this portion of the DNA.
But what you're seeing here is
that the DNA can actually bend,
and it's because of
that bending, that's
what allows the activator
protein to actually
be in the neighborhood of
where the RNA polymerase is.
And again, all of
these proteins here
basically help
the RNA polymerase
attach to the promoter
and perform transcription.
One last thing we'll mention.
So basically, you have
the whole story as far as
what happens during
transcription.
So one last thing we'll
mention before then we
leave transcription and
look at translation is this.
So again, what we've just looked
at is how does a cell read
a DNA molecule in order to
make a messenger RNA out of it?
It's this messenger
RNA then that's
going to go to the ribosome in
order to instruct the cell how
to make a protein.
It turns out, though,
that in eukaryotic cells,
things happen to
this messenger RNA
before it heads over
to the ribosome.
And one of the major things that
happens to this messenger RNA
is that things are added to it.
So to one end of
the messenger RNA
is added just a
string of guanines.
And to the other end is
added a string of adenines.
And basically by
adding the string of Gs
on one end and the string
of As on the other hand,
it makes it so that
the messenger RNA,
once it gets to the ribosome,
it can stay attached there.
And so these Gs and these
As play a role in helping
stabilize the interaction
between this messenger RNA
molecule and the ribosomes
after it gets there.
All right, so again,
the big picture
is that the messenger
RNA and the eukaryotes,
after it's been made,
and after it's had the Gs
and then the As added--
so the G is just poly G cap.
So poly means many.
So a string of many Gs
are added to one end,
and a string of many As
are added to the other.
After that happens,
then the messenger RNA
ends up going to the
ribosome to be translated.
And so we'll take a look at how
that translation happens next.